So that is it for constructor functions and prototypes.
A core concept,
you won't have to write this code a lot
or actually that depends on the job you're on, the project you're on,
you might end up in jobs where you have to write that code
but in modern Javascript you typically work with classes,
you can extend other classes, still under the hood
as I showed you, this embraces this prototype concept and you need to know that, you need to know that
because it helps you implement performance optimizations like this one or use the proper syntax there,
at least be aware of it,
that's already a plus
and it also helps you ace your interviews and in general get a feeling for the language you're working
with.
You don't just want to copy and paste snippets, you want to understand what's happening behind the scenes
and in this module, you learned that classes are in the end syntactical sugar for prototypes and constructor
functions. Though very important, let me come back to that slide I showed you earlier regarding constructor
function versus classes,
there also are differences, differences which you at least should be aware of. Constructor functions are
these functions which you can call with new, so that they don't behave like normal functions but differently.
Now classes actually have to be used with new, if you try to call a class without new, it'll just fail.
Another difference is that when you create an object with the help of a constructor function, all properties
and methods are enumerable by default.
Remember at the end of last module, I had a look at object descriptors and I showed you this idea of
enumerability and how you can turn it on or off and how that affects what gets used or what gets output
in a for/in loop. For objects based on these old school constructor functions
if we want to call them like this, every method is treated as an enumerable property. For classes, that's
different, there methods are non-enumerable by default.
One other difference which I want to highlight is that constructor functions by default don't use strict
mode,
you would have to turn it on, classes on the other hand do use strict mode.
So all behaviors you have in strict mode, you have that turned on in classes out of the box.
Now these are all not the most important things to know,
the thing regarding methods not being enumerable is probably the most important one but still for completeness,
combined with all the other things,
this is what you should take away from this module and
with that, you're well prepared to work with classes, to inherit, to extend, to work with properties and
methods
and you also have the theoretical foundation to understand what's happening behind the scenes.